Kristian Bjørnard is a designer, thinker, and sustainabilitist. He is the director of the Office of Kristian Bjørnard, a design studio focused on publishing in all its forms. Clients and collaborators include The Metropolitan Opera Guild of New York, Baltimore’s Contemporary Museum, Urbanite Magazine, Cincinnati’s Contemporary Arts Center, and myriad other artists, farmers, musicians, and publishers.
    Kristian holds an MFA from MICA and a BA in Studio Art from Kalamazoo College. As an undergraduate, Kristian explored physics and mathematics before funneling his time into fine art. His interest in the underlying function of things never filtered through the lens of the abstract and the visual led him to the field of design. Kristian brings this varied background into the classroom, drawing ties and comparisons between the natural sciences and philosophy to the discipline and practice of design.
    Current design research covers sustainability and new forms of publishing systems. This has led to a more purposeful interest into what “systems” mean when integrated into design, a focus on rules-based design concepts, the generation of personal “sustainable” aesthetic exercises, and investigating what we can learn from vernacular design methodologies. Kristian stays up to speed with current web trends, standards, and technologies, and also explores various aspects of time and motion and their use in design.

====

Kristian Bjørnard is a designer, thinker, sustainabilitist, and educator. He is the director of “The Office of Kristian Bjørnard,” a boutique design studio focused on publishing in all its forms. Kristian holds an MFA in Graphic Design from MICA and a BA in Studio Art from Kalamazoo College. Personal work revolves around “sustainable graphic design.” This has led to a more purposeful interest into what “systems” mean when integrated into design, reusable processes, a focus on rules-based design concepts, the generation of personal “sustainable” aesthetic exercises, fighting the tide of entropy, and investigating what we can learn from vernacular design methodologies. His studio work includes magazines, gallery catalogs, a collection of essays on design, a handful of websites, and tools for making hosting sites easier as well as simplifying the editing and publishing process, whatever output desired — be it a website, an ebook, or a printed copy.  Kristian also explores various aspects of time and motion as they relate to graphic design and keeps abreast of current web trends, standards, and technologies. All of these interests: systems, sustainability, motion, publishing, contemporary web technology, etc.; make for interesting insights and connections when discussing and working on projects in both the classroom and in his professional practice.


=====

Reference:  
Anne Jordan earned her BFA in Graphic Design from the Rhode Island School of Design, and her MFA in Design/Visual Communications from Virginia Commonwealth University's School of the Arts. Anne has participated in conferences around the world, speaking about design process and education. Together with her partner Mitch Goldstein, she is principal of the interdisciplinary design studio Hypothesis, Ltd. In addition to their graphic design practice, Anne designs textiles, jewelry, and ceramics.

Anne's research explores the intersection of analog and digital methods, and the potential for materials to both form and inform design. She believes that by combining hand- and computer-based methods, designers can work beyond the constraints of the computer, taking advantage of the aesthetic effects that actual materials bring to visual communication. Her process stems from a fascination with integrating type and image, an appreciation for materials and technology, and the desire to make type come alive in her hands.